README.md, before:

# CISM C2516: Virtual Fields Method - José Xavier

Welcome to the repository for the CISM C2516 course on **Virtual Fields Method (VFM)** - part of the [course on image-based mechanics](https://cism.it/en/activities/courses/C2516/). This repository contains hands-on session materials provided by Prof. José Xavier for the CISM course at UDINE, Italy.

## Repository Contents

This repository contains practical implementations and exercises for VFM analysis:

- **1_VFM_Iosipescu_orthotropic_manuallyVFs**: Manual virtual fields implementation for orthotropic Iosipescu test
- **2_VFM_Iosipescu_orthotropic_piecewiseVFs**: Piecewise virtual fields approach for orthotropic material identification
- **C2516_Flyer_Rethore_Xavier.pdf**: Course information and materials

## Installation and Usage

The code in this repository uses Jupyter Notebooks (.ipynb) that can be run through a Jupyter Notebook environment. Otherwise, we recommend to use the Jupyter Notebook environment of Anaconda.

To run the code, simply open your Jupyter environment, navigate to the location of the files and open any of the python notebooks (.ipynb files) found in the folders. The subdirectories contain python files or experimental data files that will be called in the main python notebooks.


## Authors and Acknowledgment

**Instructor**: Prof. José Xavier 
**Course**: CISM C2516 - Advanced Course on Image-Based Mechanics

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

You are free to:
- Use this code for any purpose
- Modify and adapt the code
- Share and distribute the code
- Use commercially

**MIT License** - Copyright (c) 2025 Xavier Rethore / KU Leuven

## Reporting Bugs or Issues

Feel free to contact [jmc.xavier@fct.unl.pt] should you encounter any mistakes or other bugs in the code!

Commit message:

VFM book info
Based on:
"The Virtual Fields Methods: Extracting constitutive mechanical parameters
from full-field deformation measurements" by F. Pierron, M. Grédiac

README.md, after:

# CISM C2516: Virtual Fields Method - José Xavier

Welcome to the repository for the CISM C2516 course on **Virtual Fields Method (VFM)** - part of the [course on image-based mechanics](https://cism.it/en/activities/courses/C2516/). This repository contains hands-on session materials provided by Prof. José Xavier for the CISM course at UDINE, Italy.

## Repository Contents

This repository contains practical implementations and exercises for VFM analysis:

- **1_VFM_Iosipescu_orthotropic_manuallyVFs**: Manual virtual fields implementation for orthotropic Iosipescu test
- **2_VFM_Iosipescu_orthotropic_piecewiseVFs**: Piecewise virtual fields approach for orthotropic material identification
- **C2516_Flyer_Rethore_Xavier.pdf**: Course information and materials

## Installation and Usage

The code in this repository uses Jupyter Notebooks (.ipynb) that can be run through a Jupyter Notebook environment. Otherwise, we recommend to use the Jupyter Notebook environment of Anaconda.

To run the code, simply open your Jupyter environment, navigate to the location of the files and open any of the python notebooks (.ipynb files) found in the folders. The subdirectories contain python files or experimental data files that will be called in the main python notebooks.

## Content

Based on:
"The Virtual Fields Methods: Extracting constitutive mechanical parameters
from full-field deformation measurements" by F. Pierron, M. Grédiac

## Authors and Acknowledgment

**Instructor**: Prof. José Xavier 
**Course**: CISM C2516 - Advanced Course on Image-Based Mechanics

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

You are free to:
- Use this code for any purpose
- Modify and adapt the code
- Share and distribute the code
- Use commercially

**MIT License** - Copyright (c) 2025 Xavier Rethore / KU Leuven

## Reporting Bugs or Issues

Feel free to contact [jmc.xavier@fct.unl.pt] should you encounter any mistakes or other bugs in the code!
